Document manual upload of Linux coredumps (#568)
memfault/memfault-docs: docs/linux/uploading-linux-diagnostics.mdx

---
id: uploading-linux-diagnostics
title: Uploading Linux Diagnostic Data
sidebar_label: Uploading Linux Diagnostic Data
---

import MemfaultCliInstallationCallout from "@site/src/pages/_partials/_memfault-cli-installation-callout.mdx";

## Through the Linux SDK / `memfaultd`

When [configured with a Memfault Project Key][integration-guide], `memfaultd`
will by default, automatically start uploading device diagnostics information
into Memfault.

During development, it makes sense to configure the `memfaultd` to send data at
a higher frequency. You can do this by enabling [Developer

> Mode][developer-mode].

Reviewer: I don't think that is true. We don't upload at higher frequency in developer mode. You might want to suggest `memfaultctl sync` instead.

Author: Whoops, copy pasta. Thanks.

[integration-guide]: /docs/linux/integration-guide
[developer-mode]: /docs/linux/reference-memfaultctl-cli#developer-mode

## Using the Memfault CLI

<MemfaultCliInstallationCallout />

`memfaultd` bundles and uploads device diagnostics information in MAR files.
These MAR files can also be uploaded using the `memfault` CLI tool. Note this is
a different tool than `memfaultctl`. The `memfault` CLI tool is typically not
used on the device itself, but rather on developer or CI machines.

The following examples will use an Organization Auth Token. Please refer to the
[Memfault CLI Authentication](/docs/ci/install-memfault-cli/#authentication)
section for more information about the different forms of authentication.

### Uploading a MAR file

A Memfault Archive File (MAR) is an archive format that is generated by
`memfaultd` containing many files in a compressed ZIP archive. The rationale

> behind creating and using a bundle containing many files is:

Reviewer: As one customer recently pointed out to me, we do not publicly document the MAR file format. So I am not sure how useful this will be actually.
But for the sake of keeping our documentation parallel 👍

- To minimize data bandwidth and HTTP requests for cellular devices and minimize
  CPU and power consumption for battery-operated devices.
- To make it easier for customers to send large amounts of device-generated data
  to Memfault.
- To be able to send Memfault-specific data alongside the raw files that the
  operating system creates, such as [Linux Coredumps][linux-coredumps].
- To be able to associate data within a MAR file to multiple devices.

[linux-coredumps]: /docs/linux/coredumps

To upload a MAR file that is located at, for example `/path/to/device-data.mar`,
run the appropriate command:

:::note

The Software Type, Software Version, Hardware Version, and Device Serial

> parameters of the CLI command below should match that of the device which

Reviewer: Is that really true? They describe the "uploading device", no? Why do you think this is useful to mention here?

Author: Copy pasted it from the Android page. I think it makes sense to make it match (that's what happens in uploads from the SDK too). I don't think it matters all that much though, because the metadata from the entries should get used for most things.

    upload-mar /path/to/device-data.mar
    --software-type <DEVICE SOFTWARE TYPE>
    --software-version <DEVICE SOFTWARE VERSION>
    --hardware-version <DEVICE HARDWARE VERSION>
    --device-serial <DEVICE SERIAL NUMBER>
```

## Uploading Diagnostic Data via API

Please consult the
[HTTP API Upload documentation](https://api-docs.memfault.com/#2d08c7d6-fc5e-4fc7-ac77-9d72e58ba7aa)
for details on how to upload files to Memfault using the API.

## Using the Memfault UI

:::note

For Linux, only ELF coredumps can be uploaded through the Memfault web
application UI at this time.

:::

`memfaultd` will automatically capture coredumps and upload them to Memfault.
However, if you have a coredump that was captured outside of `memfaultd`, you
can upload it manually through the Memfault UI.

### Manually capturing a coredump

To manually capture a coredump, you can use one of these techniques:

- You can use [the `gcore` program][gcore-program] (part of the GDB package) to
  capture a coredump from any running program, given its PID. This program is a
  script that attaches GDB to the program with given PID and runs [the gcore or
  generate-core-file GDB command][gcore-gdb-cmd].

> - You can make the kernel capture a coredump of a running program:

Reviewer: Maybe worth mentioning also that if the processes crashes, a coredump will be captured automatically (as long as pattern and ulimit allow it).

> - You can make the kernel capture a coredump of a running program:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can let the kernel capture a coredump of a program:
(...)
\# Wait for program to crash or
\# To force the program to crash, send SIGQUIT signal which...

```
